	Privet Drive looked exactly as a respectable suburban street would be expected to look inthe early hours of Saturday morning.  All the curtains were closed.  As far as Harry could see through the darkness, there wasn't a living creature in sight, not even a cat.
	And yet...and yet...Harry went restlessly back to the bed and sat down on it, running a finger over his scar again.  It wasn't the pain that bothered him; Harry was no stranger to pain and injury.  He had lost all the bones from his right arm once and had them painfully regrown in a night.  The same arm had been pierced by a venemous foot-long fang not long afterward.  Only last year Harry had fallen fifty feet from an airborn broomstick.  He was used to bizarre accidents and injuries; they were unavoidable if you attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and had a knack for attracting a lot of trouble.
	No, the thing that was bothering Harry was the last time his scar had hurt him, it had been because Voldemort had been close by...But Voldemort couldn't be here, now...The idea of Voldemort lurking in Privet Drive was absurd, impossible...
	Harry listened closely to the silence around him.  Was he half expecting to hear the creak of a stair or the swish of a cloak?  And then he jumped slightly as he heard his cousin Dudley give a tremendous grunting snore from the next room.
	Harry shook himself mentally; he was being stupid.  There was no one in the house with him except Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley, and they were plainly still asleep, their dreams untroubled and painless.
	Asleep was the way Harry liked the Dursleys best; it wasn't as though they were ever any help to him awake.  Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley were Harry's only living relatives.  They were Muggles who hated and despised magic in any form, which meant that Harry was about as welcome in their house as dry rot.  They had explained away Harry's long absences at Hogwarts over the last three years by telling everyone that he went to St. Brutus's Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys.  They knew perfectly well that, as an underage wizard, Harry wasn't allowed to use magic outside Hogwarts, but they were still apt to blame him for anything that went wrong about the house.  Harry had never been able to confide in them or tell them anything about his life in the wizarding world.  The very idea of going to them when they awoke, and telling them about his scar hurting him, and about his worries about Voldemort, was laughable.